# Laravel 7.x Directory Structure 

* Laravel imposes almost no restrictions on where any given class is located - as long as Composer can autoload the class
* Nonetheless it proposes an application structure intended to provide a great starting point for both large and small applications

## Lacking of a "model" folder

* the lack of a `model` directory is intentional. 
* We find the word "models" ambiguous since it means many different things to many different people. Some developers refer to an application's "model" as the totality of all of its business logic, while others refer to "models" as classes that interact with a relational database.
* For this reason, we choose to place Eloquent models in the app directory by default, and allow the developer to place them somewhere else if they choose.

# Root directory structure

[See more](https://laravel.com/docs/7.x/structure)

* `app`
  * the core code of your application: almost all of the classes in your application will be in this directory (see chapter below for more details)
* `bootstrap`
  * contains `app.php` which bootstraps the framework
  * houses a `cache` directory which contains framework generated files for performance optimization such as the route and services cache files
* `config`
  * contains all of your application's configuration files
  * It's a great idea to read through all of these files and familiarize yourself with all of the options available to you
* `database`
  * contains your database migrations, model factories, and seeds
  * If you wish, you may also use this directory to hold an SQLite database
* `public`
  * should be configured to be the only folder exposed to the outside world by the webserver
  * contains `index.php`
    * it is the front-controller, i.e. the entry point for all requests entering your application
    * it and configures autoloading
  * contains all your static assets such as `images`, `JavaScript`, and `CSS`
* `resources`
  * Should contain:
    * views
    * raw, un-compiled assets such as LESS, SASS, or JavaScript
    * language files
* `routes`
  * contains all of the route definitions. By default, several route files are included with Laravel:
    * `web.php`
      * routes that `RouteServiceProvider` places in the __web middleware group__ (provides __session state, CSRF protection, and cookie encryption__). If your application does not offer a stateless, RESTful API, all of your routes will most likely be defined in the web.php file.
    * `api.php`
      * routes that `RouteServiceProvider` places in the __api middleware group__ (provides __rate limiting__, routes are intended to be __stateless, authenticated via tokens and without access to session state__).
    * `console.php`
      * is where you may define all of your Closure based console commands. Each Closure is bound to a command instance allowing a simple approach to interacting with each command's IO methods. Even though this file does not define HTTP routes, it defines console based entry points (routes) into your application.
    * `channels.php`
      * is where you may register all of the event broadcasting channels that your application supports.
* `storage`
  * contains all generated files: compiled Blade templates, file based sessions, file caches, and other files generated by the framework. This directory is segregated into:
    * `app` - any files generated by your application
      * `storage/app/public` - user-generated files, such as profile avatars, that should be publicly accessible. You should create a symbolic link at public/storage which points to this directory. You may create the link using the `php artisan storage:link command`.
    * `framework` - framework generated files and caches
    * `logs` -  application's log files
* `tests` 
  * contains your automated tests. Each test class should be suffixed with the word `...Test`. You may run your tests using the `phpunit` or `php vendor/bin/phpunit`
* `vendor` 
  * contains composer dependencies

# App folder

* houses the majority of the application code
* is namespaced `App` and is autoloaded by Composer using the PSR-4 autoloading standard.

## App Subfolders (functionalities)

* subdirectories will be generated, if needed, via artisan commands to generate their associated classes: to review the available commands, run the `php artisan list make` 
* `Console`
  * Custom Artisan commands (API into the core of the application, do not contains application logic). 
  * Also houses your console kernel, which is where your custom Artisan commands are registered and your scheduled tasks are defined.
  * `make:command`
* `Http`
  * Controllers, middleware, and form requests. Almost all of the logic to handle requests entering your application will be placed in this directory(API into the core of the application, do not contains application logic)
* `Broadcasting`
  * broadcast channel classes
  * `make:channel` - [see event broadcasting](https://laravel.com/docs/7.x/broadcasting)
* `Events`
  * houses event classes. Events may be used to alert other parts of your application that a given action has occurred
  * `event:generate` and `make:event` Artisan commands
* `Exceptions`
  * houses the application's exception handler: if you would like to customize how your exceptions are logged or rendered, you should modify the `Handler` class here
  * is also a good place to place any exceptions thrown by your application 
* `Jobs`
  * houses the queueable jobs for your application. 
  * Jobs may be queued by your application (referred as 'commands', as they implement the [command pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command_pattern)) or run synchronously within the current request lifecycle
  * `make:job` Artisan command. 
* `Listeners`
  * `event:generate` or `make:listener` Artisan commands
  * classes that handle your events: Event listeners receive an event instance and perform logic in response to the event being fired. For example, a `UserRegistered` event might be handled by a `SendWelcomeEmail` listener.
* `Mail`
  * classes that represent emails sent by your application. Mail objects allow you to encapsulate all of the logic of building an email in a single, simple class that may be sent using the `Mail::send` method.
  * `make:mail` Artisan command
* `Notifications`
  * contains all of the "transactional" notifications that are sent by your application, such as simple notifications about events that happen within your application
  * Laravel's notification features abstracts sending notifications over a variety of drivers such as email, Slack, SMS, or stored in a database.
  * `make:notification` Artisan command
* `Policies`
  * contains the authorization policy classes for your application: Policies are used to determine if a user can perform a given action against a resource. For more information, check out the [authorization documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/7.x/authorization).
  * `make:policy` Artisan command. 
* `Providers`
  * contains all of the service providers: they bootstrap your application by binding services in the service container, registering events, or performing any other tasks to prepare your application for incoming requests.
  * In a fresh Laravel application, this directory will already contain several providers. You are free to add your own as needed.
* `Rules`
  * `make:rule` Artisan command. 
  * contains the custom validation rule objects for your application: they are used to encapsulate complicated validation logic in a simple object. For more information, check out the [validation documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/7.x/validation).